Scwm 0.6 is released.

* What scwm is:

Scwm is the Scheme Configurable Window Manager. This is a highly
dynamic and extensible window manager for the X Window System (based
originally on fvwm2, but now much enhanced) with Guile Scheme as the
configuration/extension language. Nearly all decorations can be
changed at run-time or per-window, and eventually many decoration
styles and additional features will be supported through dynamically
loaded code. A powerful protocol is provided for interacting with the
window manager while it is running.


* Primary Authors:

Maciej Stachowiak <mstachow@mit.edu> 
Greg J. Badros <gjb@cs.washington.edu>


* Where you can find more info:

Some information about scwm is available at:

http://web.mit.edu/mstachow/www/scwm.html

There are also scwm-discuss and scwm-announce mailing lists for
disscussion and release announcements repsectively. Send mail to
Maciej Stachowiak <mstachow@mit.edu> to be added to either or both
lists.


* Where you can get it:

You can download the latest scwm package from:

http://web.mit.edu/mstachow/www/scwm-0.6.tar.gz

There is also
http://web.mit.edu/mstachow/www/scwm-icons-0.6.tar.gz

which has a number of images for use with scwm as icons, textures,
buttons, etc. Some of these images are not available otherwise.

You will also need to download and install the guile library. You can
get the latest release from:

ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu/guile-1.2.tar.gz

or any archive that has GNU source packages available.

You can get the latest guile snapshot (likely to have more useful
features and generally work better) from:

ftp://red-bean.com/pub/guile

The snapshots are officially alpha but they generally work pretty
well.


* Here are highlights of what is new with the 0.6 release. There were
many changes; see the NEWS file in the distribution for more details.

 - Support for fvwm2 modules: Scwm can now execute fvwm2 modules,
using an interface written almost entirely in Scheme. This is only
slightly slower than the native fvwm module support.

 - New external program protocol: scwm now supports an improved
external program protocol which allows other programs to send commands
to a running scwm and get the results. Two programs and an emacs mode
are provided for using this protocol.

 - Improvements to images: Support for images (to be used as icons,
buttons, tiles, etc) is much improved. The main advantage is much
improved caching which shares the image object for multiple loads of
the same image, and support for user-defined image loaders.

 - Foreign format image loading through conversion: The new (app scwm
image-loaders) module supports several image loaders that attempt to
convert a variety of formats through Imagemagick or netpbm to a
natively supported format.

 - Improvements to fonts: Fonts are now more properly treated as
Scheme objects and should be garbage collected more effectively. They
are also cached like images to minimize memory usage.

 - Improvements to menus: Menus have been much improved. They now
include support for side pixmaps a la fvwm95, specification of the
fonts and colors to use per individual menu, and a nicer interface for
specfying menus.

 - Support for /etc/X11/wmconfig from Red Hat Linux 5.0: The new (app
scwm wmconfig) module allows you to create a menu that matches the
spec in the /etc/X11/wmconfig directory under Red Hat Linux 5.0.

 - The icon distribution is now separate again, and has it's own
installation process.

