REQUIRED TOOLS:

Scwm requires at least autoconf 2.12, automake 1.3 and libtool 1.2 to
generate some of the automatically generated files for the build
process. You don't need these if you are just compiling a release or a
snapshot, but if you are going to hack on the code and change the
Makefiles and such, or if you use the versions from anonymous CVS, you
will probably need them. They are available from:

** Note that automake 1.2 will *not* work -- the dependencies will fail
on the missing .x files that guile-snarf generates

autoconf 2.12: 
ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu/autoconf-2.12.tar.gz

automake 1.3:
ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu/automake-1.3.tar.gz

libtool 1.2:
ftp://prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu/libtool-1.2.tar.gz

Some of these packages may be available as .rpm or .deb packages, or
other system-specific packages, but I haven't checked.


If you have these tools, and especially if you are hacking the CVS
version, it is strongly reccomended that you run configure with the
--enable-maintainer-mode flag - this will cause "make" to regenerate
automatically generated files as needed, including Makefiles, thus
largely removing the need to run the various "auto" tools by
hand. However, it may sometimes be necessary to run them without
having the Makefile or configure handy. In this case you can run
autogen.sh, which will call all these programs for you.

In short, do:

./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-maintainer-mode ... other flags ...

Most of the time this should be unnecessary; as soon as you have
configured once with --enable-maintainer-mode, make should rebuild
those files automatically.


DOCUMENTATION TOOLS:

To regenerate the documentation from source, you will need the
following tools:

perl 5.004 or higher (until we start using the Guile version).
Parse-RecDescent package from CPAN, version 1.51 or hgher
makeinfo 1.67 or higher (it's in Texinfo 3.9 for example)


PREFERRED PATCH FORMAT:

If you send in a patch, please do so using "diff -u" if you have a
diff that supports it (like GNU diff), or else "diff -c".  Patches
relative to the current head of the relevant CVS branch are the most
useful.


SESSION MANAGEMENT PROTOCOL:

For details on libSM and libICE, see:

ftp://ftp.x.org/pub/R6.4/xc/doc/hardcopy/{SM,ICE}/*.PS.gz


