
SCWM 0.1

This is an alpha release of scwm, the Scheme Configurable Window
Manager. SCWM is (currently) a hack of FVWM 2 with the fvwm
configuration language replaced with Guile Scheme. Eventually, it will
support many new features enabled by the powerful configuration
language, including a GUI on-the-fly setup. I also think I can
eventually get the base binary smaller than fvwm2's, by removing the
redundant functionality and replacing it with simpler primitives, and
also by placing some features in dynamically loadable shared libraries.

This second alpha release implements nearly all useful fvwm2
functions, and fixes most of the serious bugs with the last
release. The only major functionality still missing is: most of the
style commands, all of the decor commands, and everything related to
modules. Modules will probably never be implemented, because I have
better ways to provide the same functionality. Styles and Decors will
be supported by the next release. This release, although labelled
alpha, should be pretty stable and moderately useful. I regularly use
scwm as my window manager now.

I've only tried compiling it on i386-unknown-linux, but any platform
that both fvwm2 and guile will build on should work. You need to have
guile installed to do the build. See the file INSTALL for further
instructions.

There's various kinds of documentation and random info in the doc
directory, and you can see some examples of what might be done in the
system.scwmrc, and also looking at the modules in the scheme directory.

However, the system.scwmrc is not very interesting right now. If you
think of neat hacks for it, pass them along to me. If people even want
to work on the windowmanager itself, that's cool too.

The copyright for the code in the scwm and libs subdirectories is the
fvwm copyright, which may be found in COPYING.FVWM. Several files may
have a slightly different copyright, or have be copyright by me. The
files in the scheme directory are under GPL (see scheme/COPYING). The
files in the doc directory are all under the copyright specified by
doc/COPYRIGHT.DOC.

 - Maciej Stachowiak <mstachow@mit.edu>

