For scwm-0.99.2 gjb used (roughly):
  ./autogen.sh
  make dist
  rpm -ts scwm-0.99.2.tar.gz
  # copy scwm-0.99.2.src.rpm to other platforms
  rpm -tb scwm-0.99.2.tar.gz

and on other platforms, do 
  rpm --rebuild scwm-0.99.2.src.rpm

THE REST OF THIS IS OUT OF DATE! --09/14/99 gjb

The release procedure for scwm:

1) Try to do some pre-testing.

2) When source has reached state believed to be releaseable, ask other
developers w/ CVS access to hold off on making changes until the
release.

3) Update THANKS and AUTHORS, examining the ChangeLogs for
contributors. Also update NEWS with all user-visible changes since the
last release, ANNOUNCE with highlights from NEWS and other
announcement information, and BUGS and TODO to make sure they are
vaguely up to date.  Also update `scwm.lsm' file.

4) Grab hypothetical distribution directories by `cvs export'ing both
the scwm and scwm-icons modules, and running `./autogen.sh'

   cvs -d scwm.mit.edu:/usr/local/repository export -D today scwm-icons
   cvs -d scwm.mit.edu:/usr/local/repository export -D today scwm
   cd scwm; sh ./autogen.sh

5) Make sure the sources configure, make, make install, run, and make
uninstall with both the latest Guile snapshot and the most recent
stable release. If this step fails, correct the problems and check in
the results, then go back to step 4.

6) Update the version number in configure.in, make an appropriate
ChangeLog entry for the release, and update scwm.lsm to have the
correct file size and version number

7) Tag the repository using the convention of using "v" followed by the
   version number with all periods replaced by dashes, e.g. v0-7).

   cvs -d scwm.mit.edu:/usr/local/repository rtag v0-8 scwm-icons
   cvs -d scwm.mit.edu:/usr/local/repository rtag v0-8 scwm

8) Export modules to tar up, creating directories that contain the
version number (e.g. scwm-0.8/). 

   cvs -d scwm.mit.edu:/usr/local/repository export -r v0-8 scwm-icons
   mv scwm-icons scwm-icons-0.8
   cvs -d scwm.mit.edu:/usr/local/repository export -r v0-8 scwm
   mv scwm scwm-0.8
   cd scwm-0.8; sh ./autogen.sh

9) Make the tarballs.

   tar czf scwm-0.8.tar.gz scwm-0.8
   tar czf scwm-icons-0.8.tar.gz scwm-icons-0.8

10) Place the tarballs in the usual locations:

* /home/ftp/pub/scwm (group scwm-dev has write permissons)
  Be sure to "chmod go+r *" to get the permissions right
 
* My web server directory (I should obsolete this, the ftp site is
probably more heavily used, and quite sufficient.) -- not put here
for 0.8 release.

11) Update the web site. Taking some hilights from NEWS and fixing the
version number references is useful.

12) Send out the release announcement. I send announcements to the
following places:

E-mail:
scwm-announce@scwm.mit.edu
guile@sourceware.cygnus.com
scsh@ai.mit.edu (this is at the invitation of Olin Shivers)

I also usually send a brief announcement including mostly
gnome-relevant things to gnome-list@gnome.org (I think you need to be
on it to post), but this is not crucial.

Newsgroups:
comp.lang.scheme
comp.os.linux.announce
comp.windows.x.announce


Newsgroups: comp.os.linux.announce, comp.windows.x.announce, comp.lang.scheme
To: scwm-discuss@mit.edu, scwm-announce@mit.edu, guile@cygnus.com, scsh@ai.mit.edu, gnome-list@gnome.org


Web Sites and/or Ftp Archives (getting volunteers to do these is sufficent):

http://www.gnome.org
  -- update its software map
http://www.freshmeat.net
ftp://ftp.red-bean.com/pub/guile/contrib/incoming 
(and send mail to Pat Eyler <pate@nortom.com> to update the guile
contrib directory)


Other Announce Location Ideas (not tried yet):

It is probably also a good idea to come up with a .lsm file and stick
it in the distribution, and submit stuff the the Linux Software Map
(how do you do this?) and the Sunsite archive.

http://www.slashdot.org may also be willing to run a brief article
They regularly cover Enlightenment, WindowMaker and AfterStep, and
recently sometimes BlackBox; highlighting the way scwm differs from
these [IMO: More emphasis on configuring behavior rather than snazzy
look; old-school hacker appeal; the "emacs of window managers"] may be
useful in convincing Rob Malda to run the announcement.


Greg's list:

http://s9412a.steinan.ntnu.no/~teg/linuxlist/linuxlist-Desktop_management.html
mailto: teg@pvv.ntnu.no

http://www.giccs.georgetown.edu/~ric/computing/software/x.html
mailto: ric@giccs.georgetown.edu

http://www.PLiG.org/xwinman/
mailto: matt@belgarath.demon.co.u

http://www.ee.ryerson.ca:8080/~elf/xapps/index.html#index7
elf@ee.ryerson.ca
