The Scheme Constraints Window Manager v0.99.2 was released late Tuesday
afternoon, 14-September-1999.  Scwm is free X11 window manager developed
using GNU/Linux for it and other Unix-like platforms.  The 0.99.2
release is the first release from the authors, Greg J. Badros and Maciej
Stachowiak, since January 1999, and improvements abound!

Scwm uses GNU Guile Scheme as its configuration and scripting language.
This makes Scwm incredibly programmable---truly the Emacs of Window
Managers... the ultimate window manager for the hacker and wannabe hacker!

In addition to the fantastic extension language, Scwm provides nearly
all the features of all other window managers combined.  Included in
this impressive list are Gnome-compliance, KDE compliance, per-window
decoration themes, completely configurable window behaviour, extensible
GUI configuration (via embedded GTk+) of user parameters,
highly-integrated and complete reference documentation, an Emacs
scwm-mode for interactive configuration and programming, window
movement/resizing/shading animations, an XTest extension, an interface
to esound, integration with fvwm2 modules, a Corba server, access to
libproplist databases, and much more!

Most notable in Scwm is its constraint solver to permit sophisticated
desires regarding window layout to be specified interactively, then
maintained by the window manager.  Scwm embeds Cassowary, a constraint
solver developed at the University of Washington by Badros and his
advisor, long-time constraints researcher Dr. Alan Borning.  Cassowary
enables Scwm to maintain arbitrary linear constraint relationships among
the windows.  For example, it can keep an Emacs window and an XTerm
window tiled along the left edge of the screen, can ensure a block of
windows move around together, can keep a mail window always on top of a
news reading window, and much more.  The possibilities are endless, and
an abstraction capability allows the end user to define new kinds of
constraint relationships and add them with a few simple mouse clicks.

This release of Scwm demonstrates how much extra productivity is
possible when there are no limits to how windows can be arranged and
manipulated.  See http://scwm.mit.edu/scwm/ for more information about
Scwm, and http://www.cs.washington.edu/research/constraints/cassowary/
for more information about the Cassowary constraint solver.

