.TH scwm 1 "18 March 1999"
.SH NAME
scwm, scwmexec, scwmrepl \- Scheme Configurable Window Manager.
.SH SYNOPSYS
scwm [--display|-d dpy] [--debug][--expression|-e expression] [--file|-f rc_file] [--single-screen|-s] [--blackout|-b] [--version|-V] [--help|-h]
.sp
scwmexec expression
.sp
scwmrepl

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B NOTE: THIS MAN PAGE IS INCOMPLETE!
You should refer to the online reference manual at:

http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/gjb/scwm-doc/

or use the included `scwm.el' emacs mode and its interactive
documentation features (very nice!).

.B Scwm
is the Scheme Configurable Window Manager.  This is a highly dynamic
and extensible window manager for the X Window System (based
originally on 
.B fvwm2
, but now much enhanced) with Guile Scheme as the
configuration/extension language.  Nearly all decorations can be
changed at run-time or per-window, and eventually many decoration
styles and additional features will be supported through dynamically
loaded code.  A powerful protocol is provided for interacting with the
window manager while it is running. Much more information is available
in the 
.B scwm
info entry.

.sp
The 
.B scwm
command is used to start the window manager itself.
.B scwmexec
is used to pass a single command expression to the window manager, and
prints the resulting output.
.B scwmrepl
starts an interactive session with the window manager.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-D"
.TP
.B "\-\-debug"
Enable lots of debugging messages.

.TP
.B "\-s"
.TP
.B "\-\-single\-screen"
Run only on the first screen of the display.

.TP
.B "\-d"
.TP
.B "\-\-display \fIdpy\fP"
Run on display \fIdpy\fP.

.TP
.B "\-f"
.TP
.B "\-\-file \fIfile\fP"
Read startup commands from the specified \fIfile\fP instead
of \fI.scwmrc\fP or \fIsystem.scwmrc\fP.

.TP
.B "\-e"
.TP
.B "\-\-expression \fIexpr\fP"
Evaluate Scheme expression \fIexpr\fP instead of reading from =
\fI.scwmrc\fP
or \fIsystem.scwmrc\fP.  Multiple \fB\-e\fP
and \fB\-f\fP options may be specified on a single command line and in
this case will be processed in the order in which they were specified.

.TP
.B "\-i"
.TP
.B "\-\-interactive"
Starts \fBscwm\fP in interactive mode \- the \fI.scwmrc\fP
or \fIsystem.scwmrc\fP file is read as usual (unless of course
there are \fB\-f\fP or \fB\-e\fP options.)

.TP
.B "\-b"
.TP
.B "\-\-blackout"
Blacks the screen out to hide the initial capture.

.TP
.B "\-V"
.TP
.B "\-\-version"
Prints the version and exits.
.SH LICENSE
Some files in scwm are derived from fvwm and therefore are subject to
the following fvwm copyright and license terms. However, many files
are entirely new and are under the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation instead. These terms are
believed to be compatible with the GPL, thus the overall distribution
terms are GPL.

\fIfvwm\fP is copyright 1988 by Evans and Sutherland Computer
Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, and 1989 by the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, All rights
reserved.  It is also copyright 1993 and 1994 by Robert Nation.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the names of Evans & Sutherland and
M.I.T. not be used in advertising in publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.

ROBERT NATION, CHARLES HINES, EVANS & SUTHERLAND, AND M.I.T. DISCLAIM
ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL EVANS &
SUTHERLAND OR M.I.T. BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.SH BUGS
See the BUGS file in the scwm distribution for some known ones.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR guile ( 1 ),
.BR fvwm2 ( 1 ),

.B info
entries for
.RB "`\|" scwm "\|'",
.RB "`\|" guile-ref "\|'",
and
.RB "`\|" Scheme-R4RS "\|'".


.RB "`\|" scwm.el "\|'"s 
scwm-mode for Emacs
.br

Scwm web site:

.B http://serveuse.mit.edu/scwm/

Reference manual:

.B http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/gjb/scwm-doc/
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Maciej Stachowiak <mstachow@alum.mit.edu>

Greg J. Badros <gjb@cs.washington.edu>
.br
http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/

and more -- see THANKS file with distribution.
